Implement #2765: Document Azure Key Vault KMS usage for record encryption (#2894)
kroxylicious/kroxylicious: kroxylicious-docs/docs/_modules/record-encryption/azure-key-vault/con-azure-key-vault-key-creation.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

// file included in the following:
//
// assembly-azure-key-vault.adoc

> [id='con-azure-key-vault-key-creation-{context}']

Author: I thought the same while writing it, to be honest. I kept it as a concept for consistency.
I think I'll raise a second PR to look at maybe refactoring this across all the KMS providers.

= Creating Azure Key Vault keys

[role="_abstract"]

> As a user with the *Key Vault Crypto Officer* role (or otherwise sufficient RBAC permissions to manage keys in Azure Key Vault), use either the Azure CLI or Azure PowerShell to create a *key* with *wrapKey* and *unwrapKey* operations enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a user with the _Key Vault Crypto Officer_ role (or otherwise sufficient RBAC permissions to manage keys in Azure Key Vault), use either the Azure CLI or Azure PowerShell to create a `key` with `wrapKey` and `unwrapKey` operations enabled.
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT

// file included in the following:
//
// assembly-azure-key-vault.adoc

[id='con-azure-key-vault-key-creation-{context}']
= Creating Azure Key Vault keys

[role="_abstract"]

> As a user with the *Key Vault Crypto Officer* role (or otherwise sufficient {microsoft-learn}/azure/key-vault/general/rbac-guide?tabs=azure-cli#azure-built-in-roles-for-key-vault-data-plane-operations[RBAC] or {microsoft-learn}/azure/key-vault/general/rbac-access-policy[legacy] permissions to manage keys in Azure Key Vault), use either the {microsoft-learn}/cli/azure/keyvault/key?view=azure-cli-latest#az-keyvault-key-create[Azure CLI] or {microsoft-learn}/powershell/module/az.keyvault/add-azkeyvaultkey[Azure PowerShell] to create a *Symmetric key* with *wrapKey* and *unwrapKey* operations enabled.

Reviewer 2: You said Symmetric key here, then go on to talk about both Symmetric and Asymmetric keys being suitable.  I'd delete the word Symmetric from the introduction.

> As a user with the *Key Vault Crypto Officer* role (or otherwise sufficient {microsoft-learn}/azure/key-vault/general/rbac-guide?tabs=azure-cli#azure-built-in-roles-for-key-vault-data-plane-operations[RBAC] or {microsoft-learn}/azure/key-vault/general/rbac-access-policy[legacy] permissions to manage keys in Azure Key Vault), use either the {microsoft-learn}/cli/azure/keyvault/key?view=azure-cli-latest#az-keyvault-key-create[Azure CLI] or {microsoft-learn}/powershell/module/az.keyvault/add-azkeyvaultkey[Azure PowerShell] to create a *Symmetric key* with *wrapKey* and *unwrapKey* operations enabled.

Author: _If_ people are reusing an existing key vault (they shouldn't be, according to Microsoft's best practice docs, but it's feasible that they _could_), then they may have legacy permissions enabled on that vault, and so it felt like we should at least mention it (which is about as much as Microsoft do in their docs too). I can see the argument for removing it, but it feels like we should at least give it a mention.

> As a user with the *Key Vault Crypto Officer* role (or otherwise sufficient {microsoft-learn}/azure/key-vault/general/rbac-guide?tabs=azure-cli#azure-built-in-roles-for-key-vault-data-plane-operations[RBAC] or {microsoft-learn}/azure/key-vault/general/rbac-access-policy[legacy] permissions to manage keys in Azure Key Vault), use either the {microsoft-learn}/cli/azure/keyvault/key?view=azure-cli-latest#az-keyvault-key-create[Azure CLI] or {microsoft-learn}/powershell/module/az.keyvault/add-azkeyvaultkey[Azure PowerShell] to create a *Symmetric key* with *wrapKey* and *unwrapKey* operations enabled.

Reviewer 3: Yep I fall more on the side of not documenting the legacy style and waiting for someone to complain that it's undocumented.

== Establish the naming convention for keys within key vault hierarchy

Establish a naming convention for keys to keep the filter’s keys separate from those used by other systems.

> Here, we use a prefix of `KEK_` for filter key name.

Reviewer 3: Underscore isn't allowed in the key name, a bit painful since we then have example filter configurations that use underscore, there's an assumption it's valid in all KMS implementations

Author: Oh, that's good to know. I'll make a note here in the docs that Azure KMS users will have to watch out for underscore characters and substitute something else as appropriate.

> NOTE: The filter key name prefix `KEK_` is used widely across the Kroxylicious project, including here in the documentation, as well as in the quickstarts, developer guides, examples, and scripts. However, *Azure Key Vault does not permit underscore characters in key names*, so Azure Key Vault users will have to adjust this naming scheme as required.

Reviewer 2: Let's do that.  Happy if we decide to do it as a follow up PR.

> NOTE: The filter key name prefix `KEK_` is used widely across the Kroxylicious project, including here in the documentation, as well as in the quickstarts, developer guides, examples, and scripts. However, *Azure Key Vault does not permit underscore characters in key names*, so Azure Key Vault users will have to adjust this naming scheme as required.

Reviewer: Assuming this note is going away

> NOTE: The filter key name prefix `KEK_` is used widely across the Kroxylicious project, including here in the documentation, as well as in the quickstarts, developer guides, examples, and scripts. However, *Azure Key Vault does not permit underscore characters in key names*, so Azure Key Vault users will have to adjust this naming scheme as required.

Author: > we could use `KEK-` for all the implementations

> Let's do that. Happy if we decide to do it as a follow up PR.

I can remove this note and refactor the docs to change it there, but we'll probably need to open a second PR to update all the scripts and everything else. There's quite a few places outside the docs where we've used it, and refactoring everything would bloat this PR quite a bit.

> NOTE: The filter key name prefix `KEK_` is used widely across the Kroxylicious project, including here in the documentation, as well as in the quickstarts, developer guides, examples, and scripts. However, *Azure Key Vault does not permit underscore characters in key names*, so Azure Key Vault users will have to adjust this naming scheme as required.

Author: Captured the remaining work to change this outside the docs in #2934, so we don't lose track of it with everything else going on.

== Supported Key Types

> NOTE: The key types available to you in Azure Key Vault will depend on your Azure Key Vault service tier. See the {microsoft-learn}/azure/key-vault/keys/about-keys[_About keys_ page in the Azure Key Vault docs] for more details.

Reviewer: I might say here:

NOTE: The key types available in Azure Key Vault depend on your service tier. For current availability and restrictions, see <<Microsoft Learn’s Azure Key Vault documentation>>.  (https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/key-vault/)

I think there are too many links sending the reader to sections in MicroSoft Learn.
Distracting if you are familiar with the setup.
Maybe reduce and have an additional resources at the start of the assembly instead of lots of embedded links:

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

* Azure Key Vault documentation ({microsoft-learn}/azure/key-vault/)

> The filter will accept the following {microsoft-learn}/rest/api/keyvault/keys/create-key/create-key?view=rest-keyvault-keys-2025-07-01&tabs=HTTP#jsonwebkeytype[key types] (along with their associated {microsoft-learn}/rest/api/keyvault/keys/wrap-key/wrap-key?view=rest-keyvault-keys-2025-07-01&tabs=HTTP#jsonwebkeyencryptionalgorithm[wrapping algorithms]) from Azure Key Vault:

Author: ```suggestion
The filter accepts the following {microsoft-learn}/rest/api/keyvault/keys/create-key/create-key?view=rest-keyvault-keys-2025-07-01&tabs=HTTP#jsonwebkeytype[key types] and their associated {microsoft-learn}/rest/api/keyvault/keys/wrap-key/wrap-key?view=rest-keyvault-keys-2025-07-01&tabs=HTTP#jsonwebkeyencryptionalgorithm[wrapping algorithms]:
```

> * *Symmetric Keys (`oct` or `oct-HSM`):* Uses the quantum-resistant `A256GCM` (256-bit AES GCM) wrapping algorithm, which {microsoft-learn}/azure/key-vault/keys/about-keys-details#symmetric-key-algorithms-managed-hsm-only[requires a Managed HSM subscription].

Author: It's specifically the wrapping algorithm that requires the Managed HSM subscription, which does in turn mean that a Managed HSM subscription is functionally required to use `oct` keys with the proxy, but it is **not** required to use `oct` keys in general. I think I could have phrased this bullet point better to clarify this, because it reads a little ambiguously to me even with this change.

* *Asymmetric Keys (`RSA` or `RSA-HSM`):* Uses the `RSA-OAEP-256` (RSAES-OAEP with SHA-256 hash and MGF1/SHA-256 mask) wrapping algorithm, which is not quantum-resistant. This wrapping algorithm {microsoft-learn}/azure/key-vault/keys/about-keys-details#wrapkeyunwrapkey-encryptdecrypt[does not require a Managed HSM subscription to use].

If using the Azure CLI, creating a key can be accomplished with a command like this:

[source,shell]
----

> VAULT_NAME="MY_KROXYLICIOUS_VAULT"

Reviewer 3: in the other sections we use `KEY_VAULT_NAME="kroxylicious-key-vault"`

KEY_NAME="KEK_<name>"

> KEY_TYPE="oct" # <1>

Reviewer 3: I wonder if we should change the example to `rsa` despite it being non quantum resistant. I don't imagine there's much chance of a user trying this out for the first time on an HSM instance and using `oct` throws up an exception with the keyvault we created earlier.

az keyvault key create --vault-name ${KEY_VAULT_NAME} --name ${KEY_NAME} --kty ${KEY_TYPE} --ops wrapKey unwrapKey # <2>
----
<1> If using a key type other than `oct`, change this value.
<2> The `wrapKey` and `unwrapKey` operations must be enabled.

> Once the key is created, it is recommended to use a key rotation policy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the key is created, it is recommended to use a key rotation policy.
```

> NOTE: Key autorotation (such as automatic rotation of keys according to a policy) has an additional cost per scheduled key rotation in Azure Key Vault. Details can be found on the {azure}/pricing/details/key-vault/[Azure Key Vault pricing page].

Author: That's fair, I debated including it in the first place. I can remove it.

> To configure a key rotation policy with the Azure CLI, you will first need to save your policy to a JSON file. An example JSON file can be found in the {microsoft-learn}/cli/azure/keyvault/key/rotation-policy?view=azure-cli-latest#az-keyvault-key-rotation-policy-update[Azure CLI docs].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a key rotation policy with the Azure CLI, save your policy to a JSON file. An example JSON file can be found in the {microsoft-learn}/cli/azure/keyvault/key/rotation-policy?view=azure-cli-latest#az-keyvault-key-rotation-policy-update[Azure CLI docs].
```
